---

title: "[10] Meet Mia"
date: "2019-10-14"
tags:
- newsletter
- family
- photos
- cmo
author: ["Joshua Steele", "joshukraine", "@tw"]
download: "OFR-Jul-Sep-2019.pdf"
image: "/2019/mia-cover-1200w.jpg"
image_lg: "/2019/mia-cover-3000w.jpg"
caption: "Our family is thrilled to introduce you to our newest little girl. Say hello to Mia Faith!"
preview: >
  This summer, on July 22, we welcomed Mia Faith into our family. Even after so many years raising kids, these little babies still bring immense joy to our hearts! I think my favorite season of "baby-hood" is when they begin to smile. Mia can stop the whole family in its tracks as everyone clambers for a peek at her darling expressions.

---

This summer, on July 22, we welcomed Mia Faith into our family. Even after so many years raising kids, these little babies still bring immense joy to our hearts! I think my favorite season of "baby-hood" is when they begin to smile. Mia can stop the whole family in its tracks as everyone clambers for a peek at her darling expressions.

<local-component />

When introducing Mia, one comment we hear often is, "Wow, I love her name!" We think names and their meanings are important, and we try to select names that will inspire our children to follow the Lord throughout their lives. We also like names that sound cute. So when Kelsie composed the name "Mia Faith", we knew we had a winner on both fronts.

<article-image />

The name *Mia* has a variety of roots, including Italian and Scandinavian, and is generally considered a derivative of *Mary* or *Miriam*. It is often associated with the words "mine" (Italian) and "beloved". To us, little Mia is certainly both of these.

Her middle name, *Faith*, is a reminder of the sure hope we have in Jesus Christ. Far from being a fantasy or emotion, the Bible says that, *"...faith is the **substance** of things hoped for, the **evidence** of things not seen." (Heb. 11:1)* All around us, nature proclaims the glory and goodness of God, teaching us that we are wonderfully made, beloved, and called to a real relationship with our Heavenly Father. As Mia grows, it is our hope and prayer that she too will come to saving faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.

When selecting the name Mia Faith, I was reminded of a favorite hymn:

> My faith has found a resting place,   
> Not in device nor creed;   
> I trust the Ever-living One,   
> His wounds for me shall plead.   
> I need no other argument,   
> I need no other plea;   
> It is enough that Jesus died,   
> And that He died for me.

He loves you, dear Mia, and He calls you to come to Him in faith so that He can make you a daughter of the King.

## Men’s Retreat

A couple of weeks ago, I had the opportunity to teach a seminar at a weekend men’s retreat. The event was organized by a local Ukrainian church called [Bozhiy Zadum](https://www.facebook.com/gods.design.lviv/) (God’s Design).

The seminar was called "The Measure of a Godly Man" and focused on the Scriptural call for men, husbands, and fathers to live in holiness. Some of the main passages taught were 2 Timothy 2:20-21, 3:16-17, and Titus 2:11-12.

### A level 3 header

Serhii Chepara, who attends Bozhiy Zadum, recorded the event and is editing the videos for release on YouTube.

#### [h4] CMO 2019 Recap

I’m pleased to report that this year’s CMO project was a great success! We had an outstanding team, and we were all encouraged as we ministered the Gospel and saw God work among us.

##### [h5] Another header

We’ve recently posted a recap article about CMO 2019 which gives a nice overview of all that was accomplished during the summer. I encourage you to read the article at this link:

[https://euroteamoutreach.org/blog/2019/09/cmo-2019-recap](https://euroteamoutreach.org/blog/2019/09/cmo-2019-recap)

## How You Can Pray

* Praise the Lord for the safe delivery of our daughter, Mia Faith.
* Pray for strength and health for both Mia and Kelsie as we progress through the early weeks of nursing.
* Praise the Lord for a great project this summer. Also pray for a strong team for CMO 2020.
* Pray for God’s blessing and protection on our church in L’viv as we have experienced some potent spiritual attack in recent months.
* Pray for peace and liberty in Ukraine.

## Ordered list here...

1. Praise the Lord for the safe delivery of our daughter, Mia Faith.
1. Pray for strength and health for both Mia and Kelsie as we progress through the early weeks of nursing.
1. Praise the Lord for a great project this summer. Also pray for a strong team for CMO 2020.
1. Pray for God’s blessing and protection on our church in L’viv as we have experienced some potent spiritual attack in recent months.
1. Pray for peace and liberty in Ukraine.
