---
title: 'Before the Curtain Closes'
date: '2025-04-23'
author: 'Joshua Steele'
cover: 'https://res.cloudinary.com/dnkvsijzu/image/upload/v1745343427/OFReport/2025-04-23-before-the-curtain-closes/good-evil-books-crowd-1-1200x630_myudya.jpg'
preview: >
  Our team of four barely fit into a mid-size Ford van, which we had packed from
  floor to ceiling with supplies: bread, aid boxes, rice, and cases of the Bible
  comic book _Good and Evil_. After hours of travel from L’viv in the west,
  passing through Zhytomyr and Kyiv in the north, we entered the flat, open
  plains of Ukraine’s southern regions. Gone were the urban centers and smooth
  highways; in their place, we found a scene reminiscent of some dystopian
  Hollywood movie.
tags:
  - good-and-evil
  - ukraine
---

_This article originally appeared on
[nogreaterjoy.org](https://nogreaterjoy.org/articles/before-the-curtain-closes/)_

<article-spacer />

Our team of four barely fit into a mid-size Ford van, which we had packed from
floor to ceiling with supplies: bread, aid boxes, rice, and cases of the Bible
comic book _Good and Evil_. After hours of travel from L’viv in the west,
passing through Zhytomyr and Kyiv in the north, we entered the flat, open plains
of Ukraine’s southern regions. Gone were the urban centers and smooth highways;
in their place, we found a scene reminiscent of some dystopian Hollywood movie.
Like a forsaken river of dust and exposed rock, the road meandered endlessly
through vast fields that held an invisible but deadly secret: Russian land
mines. We gazed out the windows, occasionally catching sight of burned-out
vehicles and abandoned fortifications.

<article-image publicId="OFReport/2025-02-24-the-november-project/dragon-teeth-field_xt2nav" width="768" caption="Dragon’s teeth tank barriers stand ominously beside our road to Kherson, a landscape scarred by war and suffering." />

I’ve served as a missionary in Ukraine for nearly a quarter century, but there
were things I saw on that trip for the very first time. They were things no one
should have to see, but they are a daily reality for tens of thousands of
Ukrainians.

Early on the second day of our trip, we rolled into a small village where I was
met with a sight that brought both joy and sadness. A crowd of about 50 people
waited for us in the cold, clustered together by the side of the road. The
meeting had been arranged in advance, and the people came with expectation.
Their village lay in ruins, the work of a cruel army that invaded their land and
took their liberty. This was one of Ukraine’s many deoccupied zones.

I eased the van to a stop and turned off the engine. As we stepped out into the
sharp winter sun, I walked directly towards the crowd, raised both arms in a
friendly gesture, and in my most cheerful Texas English, I exclaimed, “Helloooo,
everybody!” A few chuckles rippled through the crowd, along with a few nervous
glances.

<article-image publicId="OFReport/2025-02-24-the-november-project/oleksandr-ben-preaching-van_zrvxvt" width="768" caption="Oleksandr addresses a crowd in the village of Sadok. Ben also preached the Gospel as people stood around the van and listened." />

Our Ukrainian guide, Oleksandr, introduced our team, and we took turns
addressing the people and sharing briefly about our families and backgrounds.
One of the other Americans on the team preached a short Gospel message while I
translated it into Ukrainian. The people listened attentively. When the message
had ended, Oleksandr explained how we would distribute the aid. We opened the
back and side doors of the van, and the people queued up. As they made their way
from one side of the van around to the other, they each received bread, rice,
aid boxes filled with non-perishables, and, as supplies allowed, copies of Good
and Evil.

<article-image publicId="OFReport/2025-02-24-the-november-project/ben-good-evil-book-child_eleuxt" width="768" caption="Ben offers a _Good and Evil_ book to a family in the village of Shostakove." />

And then it was over. We found ourselves back in the van, inching our way
towards the next village, where the scene we had just witnessed repeated itself
all over again.

Over the past three years of war in this country, thousands of Ukrainians have
heard the Gospel through the _Good and Evil_ book. But thousands more are still
waiting to hear. Sadly, during our trip, we gave away the last of our supplies.

When we did our previous printing of _Good and Evil_ in 2022, we also launched a
distributor program, extending our reach by partnering with local missionaries,
churches, schools, and individuals across Ukraine. The program grew into an
extensive network of enthusiastic laborers who took _Good and Evil_ to the far
corners of this war-torn land. After our supplies ran out, we were forced to
shut down the program due to a lack of inventory.

But the fields of Ukraine are white unto harvest, our distributor network is
ready, and the need is great. This year, in 2025, we want to return to the
deoccupied zones and do more to bring the light of Christ to those people. We
can go anytime, but our work will be so much more effective if we can bring
along our favorite little missionaries-in-a-box: the _Good and Evil_ book.

<article-image publicId="OFReport/2025-02-24-the-november-project/good-evil-books-crowd-2_zbdcsz" width="768" caption="A joyful moment as Joshua, Ben, and Oleksandr stand with local Ukrainians who have just received their copies of _Good and Evil_. (village of Sukhanove)" />

Right now, No Greater Joy is raising funds to do a new printing of the Ukrainian
edition of _Good and Evil_. We have already contacted the same Christian printer
who has done all of our previous printings, and he is ready to go. If you are
willing, this is an exciting and strategic opportunity to give to the
advancement of the Gospel. Sadly, the future of Ukraine remains unclear. The
liberated villages we visited may once again fall under Russian occupation,
trapping their inhabitants behind a new Iron Curtain. For now, the way is open,
and we plan to march forward with whatever resources God provides. Please help
us to bring the Light of Christ to these precious Ukrainian people before the
curtain closes.

<article-button text="Donate Now" path="https://nogreaterjoy.org/shop/ministry-gift-ukraine-ge-printing/" :outline="true" :center="true" :external="true" margin="y"/>

_“For a great door and effectual is opened unto me, and there are many
adversaries.” (1 Corinthians 16:9)_

_“Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.” (Romans 12:21)_

<article-spacer />
