---
title: 'When is Daddy Coming Home?'
date: '2025-04-08'
author: 'Joshua Steele'
cover: 'https://res.cloudinary.com/dnkvsijzu/image/upload/v1744053120/OFReport/2025-04-08-when-is-daddy-coming-home/chepara-cover-2300w_szubsq.jpg'
preview: >
  “When is Daddy coming home?” This is a question all children ask, and it
  points to a promise all good parents make. Kelsie and I have said it countless
  times to our children “Mommy and Daddy will always come back.”<br><br>Yet, no
  matter how we long to reassure our little ones, we know that our power to
  fulfill that promise is limited. Tragically, there are times when life takes
  away our promise, times when a parent can’t come home.
tags:
  - ukraine
---

_This article originally appeared on
[euroteamoutreach.org](https://euroteamoutreach.org/blog/2025/04/when-is-daddy-coming-home/)_

<article-spacer />

“When is Daddy coming home?” This is a question all children ask, and it points
to a promise all good parents make. Kelsie and I have said it countless times to
our children: “Mommy and Daddy will always come back.”

Yet, no matter how we long to reassure our little ones, we know that our power
to fulfill that promise is limited. Tragically, there are times when life takes
away our promise, times when a parent can’t come home.

Shortly after Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine, our dear friend and
coworker in ministry, Serhii Chepara, was mobilized. Despite the difficult
separation from his wife, Natallia, and their two young children, Serhii served
honorably, defending his country and faithfully sharing the Gospel with those
who came across his path.

In August of last year, Serhii was sent on a very dangerous mission. We knew he
would be off-grid for at least a couple of weeks. We waited and prayed. The
first week passed, then a second, and then a third. It seemed like something was
wrong.

Then, on September 13, Natallia sent us a text saying that Serhii had been
reported missing in action. While “missing in action” was his official status,
an eyewitness account pointed to all but certain evidence that Serhii had
perished.

The Chepara family lives quite close to our home, and as soon as we heard the
news, Kelsie and I ran to be with Natallia, to do what little we could to
comfort her. The sorrow was terrible. We stood with her as she sobbed. We sat on
the floor. We prayed. Within the hour, members of the church began to arrive.
One lady offered some pills to help calm Natallia’s nerves and help her think.

Soon, we were on the phone with Serhii’s field commander, trying desperately to
learn more about what had happened. The commander could provide few details,
having only just escaped with his own life. But his grim conviction was clear:
in all likelihood, Serhii was dead.

It’s now been more than six months since that terrible day, and we still don’t
know for certain. Ukraine does not currently control the territory where Serhii
reportedly fell, and no body has been recovered. There is technically a chance
that he is alive in captivity, but as details continue to trickle in, including
a second eyewitness account, we are left with little reason to hope.

At present, there is nothing we can do to bring this daddy home to his family.
We pray, we hope, and we take comfort knowing that Serhii is in God’s hands. But
in Serhii’s absence, we can come alongside Nataliia and the children and support
them during this time of sorrow.

Today, Euro Team Outreach is launching a special fundraiser to support people
like the Chepara family and to help ease the financial burden that widows like
Natallia bear alone. If you would like to donate, you can do so by clicking the
button below. **Please specify “Fallen Defender Fund” when making your
donation.**

<article-button text="Donate Now" path="https://euroteamoutreach.org/donate" :outline="true" :center="true" :external="true" margin="y"/>

Thank you for your compassion and generosity.

“Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and them which suffer
adversity, as being yourselves also in the body.” (Hebrews 13:3)

<article-divider mt="8" mb="8"/>

_I have no regrets.<br> Eight years of happy marriage.<br> A beautiful,
intelligent wife.<br> Two fantastic kids.<br> Two years of service.<br> Ahead —
the front.<br> —Serhii Chepara, August 9, 2024_

<article-spacer />
